go/README.md, before:

# Go Bindings for Flint

## Setup

1. first build flint as described in the [main readme](../README.md)
2. change the default _cgo_ compiler ([reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44856124/can-i-change-default-compiler-used-by-cgo)): `go env -w "CC=g++`
3. build the go lib


## Build

`go build -o ./build ./examples/gauss.go #gosetup`

## Roadmap

### Examples

- [ ] Gauss
- [ ] Mnist

### Interface

First start with the ones relevant for Gauss example

- [ ] flintInit
- [ ] Tensor
  - [ ] reshape
  - [ ] transpose
  - [ ] expand
  - [ ] execute

### Documentation

There is [`go doc`](https://go.dev/blog/godoc), but maybe the documentation can also be added to work with the stuff thats already in `/docs`

See:
- <https://go.dev/doc/comment>

## Discussion

### Logging

Use [go logger](https://pkg.go.dev/log) or FFI/cgo calls to flint logger?


## Resources

- <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38381357/how-to-point-to-c-header-files-in-go>
- <https://gist.github.com/zchee/b9c99695463d8902cd33>
- <https://zchee.github.io/golang-wiki/cgo/>

Projects similar to this one:
- [gorgonia](https://github.com/gorgonia/gorgonia)
- [tfgo](https://github.com/galeone/tfgo)
- [gobrain](https://github.com/goml/gobrain)
- [gonet](https://github.com/dathoangnd/gonet)
- [go-deep](https://github.com/patrikeh/go-deep)

## Notes

The following "modern" C features do not work with cgo, all code needs to be in "legacy" C
- importing like `#include <string>`. Must be `#include <string.h>`
- defining enums without a `typedef` ([see here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34323130/the-importance-of-c-enumeration-typedef-enum) or [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1102542/how-to-define-an-enumerated-type-enum-in-c))
  - alternatively preprend the enum type with the `enum` keyword everywhere it is used.

## Issues:
- linking issues (find a way to link libflint.a or global `-lflint`)
  - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44856124/can-i-change-default-compiler-used-by-cgo
- memory management with cgo
- https://dave.cheney.net/2016/01/18/cgo-is-not-go
- TO THE SAVE: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72332541/how-do-i-make-golang-cgo-to-use-g-linker-for-a-c-static-library-with-extern

Commit message:

:bulb: :bug: :fire: clean up result method
also add something about mem debugging and mem checks for leaks using
valgrind and cgo

go/README.md, after:

# Go Bindings for Flint

## Setup

1. first build flint as described in the [main readme](../README.md)
2. change the default _cgo_
   compiler ([reference](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44856124/can-i-change-default-compiler-used-by-cgo)): `go env -w "CC=g++`
3. build the go lib

## Build

`go build -o ./build ./examples/gauss.go #gosetup`

## Roadmap

### Examples

- [ ] Gauss
- [ ] Mnist

### Interface

First start with the ones relevant for Gauss example

- [ ] flintInit
- [ ] Tensor
    - [ ] reshape
    - [ ] transpose
    - [ ] expand
    - [ ] execute

### Documentation

There is [`go doc`](https://go.dev/blog/godoc), but maybe the documentation can also be added to work with the stuff
thats already in `/docs`

See:

- <https://go.dev/doc/comment>

## Discussion

### Logging

Use [go logger](https://pkg.go.dev/log) or FFI/cgo calls to flint logger?

## Resources

- <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/38381357/how-to-point-to-c-header-files-in-go>
- <https://gist.github.com/zchee/b9c99695463d8902cd33>
- <https://zchee.github.io/golang-wiki/cgo/>

Projects similar to this one:

- [gorgonia](https://github.com/gorgonia/gorgonia)
- [tfgo](https://github.com/galeone/tfgo)
- [gobrain](https://github.com/goml/gobrain)
- [gonet](https://github.com/dathoangnd/gonet)
- [go-deep](https://github.com/patrikeh/go-deep)

## Notes

The following "modern" C features do not work with cgo, all code needs to be in "legacy" C

- importing like `#include <string>`. Must be `#include <string.h>`
- defining enums without
  a `typedef` ([see here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/34323130/the-importance-of-c-enumeration-typedef-enum)
  or [here](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/1102542/how-to-define-an-enumerated-type-enum-in-c))
    - alternatively preprend the enum type with the `enum` keyword everywhere it is used.

## Issues:

- linking issues (find a way to link libflint.a or global `-lflint`)
    - https://stackoverflow.com/questions/44856124/can-i-change-default-compiler-used-by-cgo
- memory management with cgo
- https://dave.cheney.net/2016/01/18/cgo-is-not-go
- TO THE
  SAVE: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/72332541/how-do-i-make-golang-cgo-to-use-g-linker-for-a-c-static-library-with-extern

## Checking for memory safety

Compile your code (e.g. the examples) with `go build examples/gauss.go` and run them with `valgrind`
